# Note-Taking Application

This is a simple note-taking application built with FastAPI, MongoDB, and Redis. It allows users to register, login, create, view, update, and delete notes. This application is Dockerized and also uses Redis to cache notes for the better performance.

## Project Structure

- `app/`: Contains the source code for the FastAPI application.
  - `main.py`: Main FastAPI application file with endpoint definitions.
  - `auth.py`: Handles user authentication and authorization.
  - `crud.py`: Implements CRUD operations for notes.
  - `db_config.py`: Establishes connection to MongoDB database.
  - `redis_config.py`: Establishes connection to Redis.
  - `models.py`: Defines Pydantic models for request/response validation.
  - `test.py`: For testing APIs.
- `Dockerfile`: Defines Docker configuration for containerizing the application.
- `requirements.txt`: Lists Python dependencies for the application.
- `README.md`: Documentation file (you're currently reading it!).

## Installation and Setup

1. Ensure you have Python 3.9 or later installed on your system.
2. Install Docker if you haven't already (for containerization).
3. Clone this repository:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/GargAnshu9468/note-taking-app.git
4. Navigate to the project directory:

    ```bash
    cd note-taking-app
5. Install Python dependencies:

    ```bash
    pip install -r app/requirements.txt
6. Set up MongoDB and Redis on your local machine.
7. Run the application:

    ```bash
    uvicorn main:app --host localhost --port 8000

## Building and Running the Application with Docker

1. Build the Docker image:

    ```bash
    docker build -t note-taking-app .
2. Run the Docker container:

    ```bash
    docker run -d -p 8000:8000 note-taking-app
3. Access the application in your web browser at http://localhost:8000.

## API Documentation

The API documentation generated by FastAPI can be accessed at http://localhost:8000/docs.

## Usage

1. Register a new user using the /register endpoint.
2. Log in with the registered user using the /login endpoint to obtain an access token.
3. Use the obtained access token to authenticate and access other endpoints for creating, viewing, updating, and deleting notes.
